---
title: FAQ
category: Help
slug: 14.faq
hash: "#faq"
fullpath: /docs
---

## [Where can I get help?](#where-can-i-get-help)

1. Join the community on [Discord](https://discord.gg/pJsjuNCKRq) or [Matrix](https://matrix.to/#/#audiobookshelf:matrix.org).
2. Go to the [Github repo](https://github.com/advplyr/audiobookshelf) and at the top left of the page you can search for your issue.

## [Why are multiple books showing as the same book?](#why-are-multiple-books-showing-as-the-same-book)

There are 2 ways this can happen.

1. The audio or ebook files are inside the same sub-folder. Each audiobook/ebook must be inside its own folder UNLESS you are keeping them in the root folder.
2. You have an ebook or audio file inside a sub-folder. An ebook file can be a `PDF`, `AZW3`, `MOBI`, `EPUB`, `CBR`, `CBZ`. If any audio file or ebook file is found in a subfolder then it is assumed that sub-folder is the book.


## [What is the difference between a "Scan" and "Force Re-Scan"?](#what-is-the-difference-between-a-scan-and-force-re-scan)

The only difference is a force re-scan will read the meta (ID) tags on every audio file again. A regular scan will not read the meta tags of audio files that have already been seen.

The only reason you would want to force re-scan is if you have modified the meta tags on your audio files. A regular scan will be enough to detect new/removed/renamed files. Force re-scan will greatly extend the scan time and is resource intensive so only use it when necessary.


## [How is metadata pulled in from scans?](#how-is-metadata-pulled-in-from-scans)

Scans pull information from your folder names and audio file meta tags. Metadata is only pulled from external providers when using the "Match" or "Quick Match" features.

By default your folder names will take priority over your audio file meta tags unless you have enabled the "Prefer audio metadata" setting. 

For example, if your audiobook is in a folder named "Enders Game (Annotated)" then by default the book title will be "Enders Game (Annotated)" regardless of your audio file meta tags. 

Alternatively, if you had the "Prefer audio metadata" enabled and you have the title meta tag set on your audio files to "Enders Game" then the scanner would use "Enders Game" as the book title.

Scans will not overwrite metadata already pulled in.

A Force Re-Scan will only overwrite metadata on your items in Abs if you have the server setting "Prefer audio metadata" enabled because the meta tags from the audio files are being pulled again. If you don't have that server setting enabled then only the missing/empty details on your library items will be filled in from the scan.

Note: You can also use a `desc.txt`, `reader.txt` and `.opf` file to pull data into Abs. See [here](#book-additional-metadata)