---
title: Configuration
category: Configuration
hash: "#env-configuration"
fullpath: /docs
order: 3.1
---

Audiobookshelf is configured via environment variables.
You can pass them to your Docker container using `-e VARIABLE=VALUE`
or set them in `/etc/default/audiobookshelf` if you install audiobookshelf via packages.

Here is a list of all available options:

## Filesystem

- `CONFIG_PATH` (default: `./config`)
  - Path to the config directory.
  - It will contain the database (users/books/libraries/settings). This location must not be mounted over the network.
- `METADATA_PATH` (default: `./metadata`)
  - Path to the metadata directory.
  - It will contain cache, streams, covers, downloads, backups and logs.
- `BACKUP_PATH` (default: `./metadata/backups`)
  - Path to where backups are stored.
  - Backups contain a backup of the database in `/config` and images/metadata stored in `./metadata/items` and `./metadata/authors`

## External Tools

- `FFMPEG_PATH` (default: `ffmpeg`)
  - Path to the `ffmpeg` binary.
  - If no path is set, Audiobookshelf will assume the binary to exist in the system path.
- `FFPROBE_PATH` (default: `ffprobe`)
  - Path to the `ffprobe` binary.
  - If no path is set, Audiobookshelf will assume the binary to exist in the system path.

## Network

- `HOST`
  - The host Audiobookshelf binds to.
    Most commonly, this will be `127.0.0.1` if you want the service to listen to localhost only,
    or left unset if you want to listen to all interfaces (both IPv4 and IPv6).
- `PORT`
  - The TCP port Audiobookshelf will listen on.
- `EXP_PROXY_SUPPORT`
  - Experimental workaround to repsect the `HTTP_PROXY` and `HTTPS_PROXY` environment variables.
    The SSRF request filter is also disablede by using thes environment variable

## Security

- `TOKEN_SECRET` <span class="inline-warning-badge">Removed in v2.26.0</span>
  - Secret used for generating the JSON Web Tokens.
  - If none is provided, a secure random token is generated automatically.
    That will usually be sufficient.
- `ACCESS_TOKEN_EXPIRY` <span class="inline-success-badge">Changed in v2.31.0</span>
  - Access token expiration in seconds (default: 3600 = 1 hour)
- `REFRESH_TOKEN_EXPIRY` <span class="inline-success-badge">Changed in v2.31.0</span>
  - Refresh token expiration in seconds (default: 2592000 = 30 days)
- `RATE_LIMIT_AUTH_WINDOW` <span class="inline-success-badge">Added in v2.26.0</span>
  - Rate limiting window in milliseconds (default: 600000 = 10 minutes)
- `RATE_LIMIT_AUTH_MAX` <span class="inline-success-badge">Added in v2.26.0</span>
  - Maximum auth attempts per window (default: 40)
  - Use 0 to disable rate limiter
- `JWT_SECRET_KEY` <span class="inline-success-badge">Added in v2.26.0</span>
  - ⚠ Warning: Do not change the secret on an existing server until the next mobile app release or the 3rd party app you are using has migrated. This will make the old tokens unusable so that only migrated apps can authenticate with your server.
  - Secret used for signing the JSON Web Tokens (auto-generated if not provided)
- `ALLOW_CORS` (default: `'0'`)
  - Allow Cross-Origin Resource Sharing if set to `'1'`.
- `DISABLE_SSRF_REQUEST_FILTER` (default: `'0'`)
  - Disables the security of using the "Server Side Request Forgery" filter.
  - If you are self-hosting a podcast from the same server, you may need to disable the SSRF filter.
- `SSRF_REQUEST_FILTER_WHITELIST`
  - A comma-separated whitelist of domains to exclude from the SSRF filter
- `ALLOW_IFRAME` (default: `'0'`)
  - Allow use of iframes. This can also be done at the reverse proxy level.

## Other

- `SOURCE`
  - Installation source. Will be shown in the web client.
  - Usually set to `docker`, `debian` or `rpm`.
- `NODE_ENV` (default: `production`)
  - Type of deployment.
  - Should be `production` unless using `development`.
- `PODCAST_DOWNLOAD_TIMEOUT` (default: `30` seconds)
  - Timeout to wait for a podcast to start downloading.
- `QUERY_LOGGING`
  - Debug information for logging SQL queries
  - Use `log` to log the queries, and `benchmark` to also log the runtime of each query.
- `QUERY_PROFILING`
  - Experimental profiling of specific database queries. Not implemented on most queries.
- `SQLITE_MMAP_SIZE`
  - Set the `mmap_size` pragma for the SQLite database
- `SQLITE_CACHE_SIZE`
  - Set the `cache_size` pragma for the SQLite database
- `SQLITE_TEMP_STORE`
  - Set the `temp_store` pragma for the SQLite database
