---
title: Custom Metadata Providers
slug: custom-metadata-providers
fullpath: /guides/custom-metadata-providers
---

This guide is for making and adding custom metadata providers.
ABS provides a few common providers (such as Audible, Google, iTunes, audiobookcovers), but does not include all providers or providers that do not have a public API.
Beginning in server version 2.8.0, users can add custom metadata providers.
This allows users to build custom tools or programs to allow ABS to interface with other metadata providers.

# adding custom provider in ABS

A custom provider can be added to ABS through "Metadata Tools" in the server settings.
To add a custom provider you will need the address of the provider (a URL if a public community provider or the IP and port if you're running the custom provider yourself).
If an authorization token is needed you will also add that here.

# creating custom provider

These custom providers will need to be run separately from ABS.
If you are using a community provided provider, you will need to follow the directions for that specific project page.
Issues with community providers should be brought up in the provider's repository and not in the main ABS repositories.
If someone has provided a public URL to the provider, you should not need to run anything yourself and can just use the provided IP and authentication token (you will need to read that providers documentation).
The request and response format that ABS expects is defined in [this OpenAPI spec](https://github.com/advplyr/audiobookshelf/blob/master/custom-metadata-provider-specification.yaml).

# community providers

These custom metadata providers have been made by the community and are not maintained as part of the core project.
If you have made a custom provider and want to share, you can [open a PR for this file](https://github.com/audiobookshelf/audiobookshelf-web/blob/master/content/guides/13.custom-metadata-providers.md) to add your information to the table.

| Provider | Repository | Public API | Notes |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Example | | | Work in Progress |